[train][doc] Add checkpoint_upload_mode to checkpoint docs (#56860)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/train/user-guides/checkpoints.rst

Reviewer: +1 to having a separate header for async, and another one for custom uploading.

Then you can describe the base behavior that's done in synchronous checkpointing, and within each of the other sections focus on the pros/cons from the user point of view.

Author: done

Reviewer: LGTM, @angelinalg can you review for docs? :)

    rank-specific filenames already, so you usually do not need to worry about this.

.. _train-checkpoint-upload-modes:

Checkpoint Upload Modes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> By default, when you report, Ray Train synchronously pushes your checkpoint from

Reviewer: Explicitly use `ray.train.report()` here rather than "report"

Author: done.

``checkpoint.path`` on local disk to ``checkpoint_dir_name`` on remote storage as
defined by your ``RunConfig``. This is equivalent to calling ``report`` with
``checkpoint_upload_mode=CheckpointUploadMode.SYNC``:

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __checkpoint_upload_mode_sync_start__
    :end-before: __checkpoint_upload_mode_sync_end__

However, you may want to upload your checkpoint asynchronously instead so you can
start the next training step in parallel. If so, you should use
``checkpoint_upload_mode=CheckpointUploadMode.ASYNC``:

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __checkpoint_upload_mode_async_start__
    :end-before: __checkpoint_upload_mode_async_end__

.. note::

    Right now, ``report`` caps the number of concurrent upload threads to 1, so you don't
    need to worry about OOM's. If the previous checkpoint upload is still happening
    during the current ``report``, ``report`` will block until that upload completes.

> Both of these values of ``CheckpointUploadMode`` upload your checkpoint from disk to remote
> storage with a pyarrow copy, but you may want to use a different upload method,
> such as PyTorch's ``async_save``, instead. If so, you can upload the checkpoint to
> the remote storage directory defined by your ``RunConfig`` using your method of choice,
> and then call ``report`` with ``checkpoint_upload_mode=CheckpointUploadMode.NO_UPLOAD``:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ray Train defaults to uploading from disk to the remote `storage_path` with pyarrow filesystem copying utilities. If you handle checkpoint uploading manually or with a third-party library such as Torch Distributed Checkpointing, you can set ``checkpoint_upload_mode=CheckpointUploadMode.NO_UPLOAD`` and just report a reference of the uploaded checkpoint.
```

Reviewer: Keep it explicit that the reported checkpoint must be reported to `storage_path`.

Author: Used @justinvyu 's text + 

as long as the checkpoint was uploaded to the ``storage_path``.

    rank-specific filenames already, so you usually do not need to worry about this.

.. _train-checkpoint-upload-modes:

Checkpoint Upload Modes
-----------------------

By default, when you ``ray.train.report``, Ray Train synchronously pushes your checkpoint
 from ``checkpoint.path`` on local disk to ``checkpoint_dir_name`` on your ``storage_path``.
This is equivalent to calling ``ray.train.report`` with ``checkpoint_upload_mode=CheckpointUploadMode.SYNC``.

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __checkpoint_upload_mode_sync_start__
    :end-before: __checkpoint_upload_mode_sync_end__

> Asynchronous Checkpointing

Author: done

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may want to upload your checkpoint asynchronously instead so you can
start the next training step in parallel. If so, you should use
``checkpoint_upload_mode=CheckpointUploadMode.ASYNC``.

> 

Author: Added the first part, but not sure what you mean by `does not guarantee that the checkpoint will be uploaded ` since the guarantees should be the same.

    rank-specific filenames already, so you usually do not need to worry about this.

.. _train-checkpoint-upload-modes:

> Checkpoint Upload Modes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Checkpoint upload modes
```

Author: done.

-----------------------

By default, when you call :func:`~ray.train.report`, Ray Train synchronously pushes
your checkpoint from ``checkpoint.path`` on local disk to ``checkpoint_dir_name`` on
your ``storage_path``. This is equivalent to calling :func:`~ray.train.report` with
:class:`~ray.train.CheckpointUploadMode` set to ``ray.train.CheckpointUploadMode.SYNC``.

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __checkpoint_upload_mode_sync_start__
    :end-before: __checkpoint_upload_mode_sync_end__

> Asynchronous Checkpoint Uploading

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Asynchronous checkpoint uploading
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You may want to upload your checkpoint asynchronously instead so that
the next training step can start in parallel. If so, you should use
``ray.train.CheckpointUploadMode.ASYNC``. This is helpful for larger
checkpoints that might take longer to upload, but might add unnecessary

> complexity if you want to immediately upload a small checkpoint.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
complexity if you want to immediately upload only a small checkpoint.
```

Reviewer 3: Not sure if that's your point.

Author: regardless, accepted the change for now.

> complexity if you want to immediately upload a small checkpoint.

Reviewer 4: It might be helpful to elaborate more on what the tradeoffs are between async and sync. Such as what the complexities might be, is there a significant performance or memory tradeoff, or is async usually just the better option

Author: Added `which kicks off a new thread to upload the checkpoint` and moved `Each ``report`` blocks until the previous ``report``\'s checkpoint upload completes before starting a new checkpoint upload thread. Ray Train does this to avoid accumulating too many upload threads and potentially running out of memory.` to the main body. 

What I'm going for is:
* complexities: kicking off a thread + the report blocking thing above
* performance: only worthwhile if checkpoint is big
* memory: more memory from new thread, but this is capped at 1 thread as per the comment above

Lmk if the new wording addresses these points.

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __checkpoint_upload_mode_async_start__
    :end-before: __checkpoint_upload_mode_async_end__

.. figure:: ../images/sync_vs_async_checkpointing.png

>     Synchronous vs asynchronous checkpoint uploading. Right now, each ``report`` blocks

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    This figure illustrates the difference between synchronous and asynchronous checkpoint uploading. Each ``report`` blocks
```

    until the previous ``report``\'s checkpoint upload completes before starting a new

>     checkpoint upload thread. We do this to avoid accumulating too many upload threads

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    checkpoint upload thread. Ray Train does this to avoid accumulating too many upload threads
```

Author: done.

>     and potentially running out of memory.

Reviewer: The threading comments can be moved to be part of the regular docs, as opposed to the caption of the image.

> Custom Checkpoint Uploading

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Custom checkpoint uploading
```

Author: done.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:func:`~ray.train.report` defaults to uploading from disk to the remote ``storage_path``

> with pyarrow filesystem copying utilities before reporting the checkpoint to Ray Train.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
with the PyArrow filesystem copying utilities before reporting the checkpoint to Ray Train.
```

Author: done.

``ray.train.CheckpointUploadMode.ASYNC``, which kicks off a new thread
to upload the checkpoint. This is helpful for larger
checkpoints that might take longer to upload, but might add unnecessary
complexity if you want to immediately upload only a small checkpoint.

Each ``report`` blocks until the previous ``report``\'s checkpoint
upload completes before starting a new checkpoint upload thread. Ray Train does this
to avoid accumulating too many upload threads and potentially running out of memory.

.. literalinclude:: ../doc_code/checkpoints.py
    :language: python
    :start-after: __checkpoint_upload_mode_async_start__
    :end-before: __checkpoint_upload_mode_async_end__

.. figure:: ../images/sync_vs_async_checkpointing.png

    This figure illustrates the difference between synchronous and asynchronous
    checkpoint uploading.

Custom checkpoint uploading
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

:func:`~ray.train.report` defaults to uploading from disk to the remote ``storage_path``
with the PyArrow filesystem copying utilities before reporting the checkpoint to Ray Train.
If you would rather upload the checkpoint manually or with a third-party library

> such as Torch Distributed Checkpointing, you can first upload the checkpoint to

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
such as `Torch Distributed Checkpointing <https://docs.pytorch.org/docs/stable/distributed.checkpoint.html>`_, you can first upload the checkpoint to
```
